1
Autonomous Hyperspectral Characterisation Station:
Robotically Assisted Characterisation of Polymer
Degradation
Shayan Azizi1,2, Ehsan Asadi1, Shaun Howard2, Benjamin W. Muir2, Riley O’Shea2and Alireza Bab-Hadiashar1
Abstract —This paper addresses the gap between the capabil-
ities and utilisation of robotics and automation in laboratory
settings and builds upon the concept of Self Driving Labs
(SDL). We introduce an innovative approach to the temporal
characterisation of materials. The article discusses the challenges
posed by manual methods involving established laboratory equip-
ment and presents an automated hyperspectral characterisation
station. This station integrates robot-aided hyperspectral imag-
ing, complex material characterisation modeling, and automated
data analysis, offering a non-destructive and comprehensive
approach. This work explains how the proposed assembly can
automatically measure the half-life of biodegradable polymers
with higher throughput and accuracy than manual methods.
The investigation explores the effect of pH, number of average
molecular weight (Mn), end groups, and blends on the degra-
dation rate of polylactic acid (PLA). The contributions of the
paper lie in introducing an adaptable classification station for
novel characterisation methods and presenting an innovative
methodology for polymer degradation rate measurement. The
proposed system has the potential to accelerate the development
of high-throughput screening and characterisation methods in
material and chemistry laboratories.
Note to Practitioners —The characterisation and classification
of materials hold significant importance within the realms of
material science, chemistry, manufacturing and circular economy.
We introduce an innovative approach by employing robotics to
automate hyperspectral imaging and processing to accelerate and
improve material characterisation within a laboratory environ-
ment. This methodology facilitates the time-dependent character-
isation of materials. This automated system encompasses sample
manipulation and handling for hyperspectral scanning, accom-
panied by automated image and data processing procedures to
minimise manual interventions effectively. The developed system
can be seamlessly integrated into lab settings, offering objective,
accurate, and automated measurement of biodegradable polymer
degradation rate.
Index Terms —Hyperspectral imaging, laboratory automation,
polymer degradation, material characterisation.
I. INTRODUCTION
EFFORTS have been directed towards bridging the gap
between capabilities and utilisation of robotics and au-
tomation within a laboratory setting. With the introduction
of Self Driving Labs (SDL) [1] such as the mobile chemist
1Shayan Azizi, Ehsan Asadi and Alireza Bab-Hadiasher are with Fac-
ulty of Manufacturing, Materials and Mechatronics Engineering, RMIT
University, VIC 3000, Australia (email: s3950426@student.rmit.edu.au;
ehsan.asadi@rmit.edu.au; alireza.bab-hadiashar@rmit.edu.au)
2Shayan Azizi, Shaun Howard, Benjamin W. Muir and Riley O’Shea
are with the Manufacturing business unit at CSIRO, VIC 3168, Australia
(email: shayan.azizi@csiro.au; shaun.howard@csiro.au; ben.muir@csiro.au;
riley.o’shea@csiro.au)
Fig. 1: Robot-aided hyperspectral mapping and data sampling.
[2], automation and AI are expected to significantly impact
laboratory operations, enabling mechanised large-scale exper-
imentation with high levels of repeatability and throughput
while reducing operational costs [3]. Automation can greatly
enhance material classification and characterisation which are
essential tasks within scientific laboratories. Specifically, there
has been a growing interest in the use and applications of
biodegradable polymers, including but not limited to packag-
ing, electronics, automotive components, and critical medical
applications such as implantation and drug delivery [4][5].
Consequently, automation of degradation rate measurement
and analysis is becoming increasingly important, necessitating
objective data sampling throughout days, nights and weekends
for an extended period of time.
A. Problem, solution and rationale
Numerous chemical and material science experiments in-
volve reactions or processes that happen gradually, yielding
crucial data at specific time points. Prolonged experiments
that require regular measurements impose significant demands
on laboratory staff and equipment usage. Moreover, many
experiments prove sensitive to intrusive measurement tech-
niques entailing resampling or extreme exposure. Established
equipment for characterisation, including mass spectrome-
try, Fourier-transform infrared spectroscopy (FTIR), nuclear
magnetic resonance (NMR), UV-vis spectroscopy, gas per-
meation chromatography (GPC), etc., are frequently operatedarXiv:2402.11763v1  [eess.SY]  19 Feb 20242
manually, requiring laborious sample preparation. They often
have prolonged operation times and are associated with high
operational and setup costs. These characteristics limit their
seamless integration into automated workflows.
Current techniques for measuring the degradation rate of
biodegradable polymers encompass a range of methods, in-
cluding NMR, FTIR, GPC, thermogravimetric analysis (TGA),
(SEM) and turbidity measurements [6]. For instance, GPC
quantifies alterations in the hydrodynamic radius associated
with molecular weight. By evaluating changes in molecular
weight, insights into the polymer degradation rate can be
derived. However, GPC involves many preparatory manual
steps as well as high levels of uncertainty associated with its
measurements. Alternatively, a turbidity scanner can measure
the intensity of scattered light by the sample, which may
decrease as the polymer degrades. Turbidity measurements are
based on assumptions that the polymer is homogeneous within
the solution and the light beam wavelength is appropriate for
all samples, which is usually not the case. These standard an-
alytical techniques exhibit limitations in assessing degradation
rates and often involve multiple manual procedures with low
throughput.
This paper presents an automated hyperspectral character-
isation station for high-throughput material analysis without
requiring any preparatory steps or deep domain knowledge.
This method allows flexibility and optimised automation via
integrating robot-aided hyperspectral imaging with complex
material characterisation modelling and automated data anal-
ysis. The compact and non-destructive nature of the proposed
method allows synergistic deployment with various classi-
fication tools, thereby providing a comprehensive analysis.
Through a detailed case study, we show how the proposed
assembly can automatically measure the half-life of bio-
degradable polymers with higher throughput and accuracy
compared to what is typically achieved with manual methods.
B. Contributions and capabilities
This paper has two major contributions: (I)We introduce an
adaptable and automated classification station that enables the
development of novel characterisation methods involving slow
temporal changes by providing readily analysable hyperspec-
tral data over an extended period of time. Applications of this
system encompass tracking changes within samples over time,
conducting comparative analyses across multiple samples,
time-dependent characterisation, and non-intrusive monitor-
ing. The hyperspectral data provides a range of information,
including variations in total reflectance, alterations in peak
and trough intensities, quantitative colorimetric assessment,
and identification of anomalies in established spectral patterns.
This information is useful to detect the presence or absence
of specific materials as well as to measure solubility and
degradation, light sensitivity, uniformity, concentrations, etc.
This framework provides opportunities for the development of
innovative, rapid, automated, and high-throughput screening
and characterisation methods within material and chemistry
laboratories. The use of the proposed system has the potential
to accelerate the generation of training data for machinelearning methods that can solve characterisation challenges.
(II) An innovative methodology is developed for polymer
degradation rate measurement as an objective, accurate and
automated solution with minimum human intervention. This
technique provides insights into the degradation of Polylactic
Acid (PLA). The impact of variables such as pH, molecular
weight, end groups and blends of polymers on the rate of
polymer degradation is investigated.
II. R ELATED WORK
Laboratory automation is increasingly necessary to speed up
chemical analysis processes and reduce the required human re-
sources [1][3]. Recent work are focused on using collaborative
robots (cobots), which are an emerging technology that brings
flexibility to labs without compromising scientists’ safety. As
an example, “the mobile robotic chemist” [2] is designed to
perform complete experiments and improve future experiments
by analysing the results of previous runs. Such closed-loop
automated processes are intended to increase the speed of lab-
oratory processes. A less sophisticated application of cobots in
labs is their use in Covid-19 testing facilities [7], where a sam-
ple cleaning procedure is automated, saving lab technicians
time and effort from performing tedious and repetitive tasks.
Another example is a robotic system performing the Michael
reaction experiment competently as a junior chemist [8]. To
add flexibility, a system architecture called the ARChemist
[9] was developed to facilitate laboratory automation using
existing equipment. Similarly, a scene-aware robotic chemist
with the ability to plan long horizon trajectories and perform
pouring exercises was developed to perform basic solubility
and crystallisation experiments [10].
Robots are also increasingly employed to automate various
aspects of hyperspectral analysis across different domains. As
an example, robots and HSI were used to design a construction
demolition waste system [11] to separate common waste mate-
rials such as brick, rubber, concrete, and wood using a robotic
arm. For outdoor applications, an automated hyperspectral
imaging system, in conjunction with a deep learning technique,
was also developed to predict the nitrogen contents in corn
plant leaves [12]. However, automated systems have turned
out to have a lower time-averaged throughput compared to
humans. Most recently, a system known as Hyperbot-A [13]
has been developed to automate the process of hyperspectral
imaging data gathering with the help of a cobot. However,
hyperbot-A’s integration with external equipment remains un-
explored and hasn’t been utilised for specific applications.
In terms of data analysis, there is significant potential to
improve scientific measurements by using artificial intelli-
gence, particularly those focused on hyperspectral imaging
(HSI) [14]. For instance, a study conducted in a laboratory
setting utilises HSI to predict the mean size of polymer
molecules [15], which had an observed and predicted value
correlation (R2) of 0.97. Similarly, by using machine learn-
ing and hyperspectral images, the possibility of measuring
the conductivity of thin polymer films was explored [16].
Although conductivity and reflection spectrum may initially
seem unrelated, the combination of HSI and ML served as3
a diagnostic tool to measure film conductivity. While this
work demonstrated the potential of hyperspectral imaging as
a characterisation technique, the data-gathering process was
conducted manually.
Over the past few years, some work has also investigated
polymer degradation and aging using hyperspectral imaging.
Polylactic acid degradation was evaluated in an accelerated
weathering test using a NIR hyperspectral camera, which
used spectral intensity to suggest a decrease in molecular
weight induced by the hydrolysis degradation [17]. Another
study of polymer degradation [18] found that the HSI method
provides a more detailed picture of sample degradation in
terms of its spatial variance. Polymer damage and aging
were also analysed for silicone rubbers while mainly utilising
the visible spectrum [19]. Most recently, the aging state of
styrene–butadiene–styrene (SBS) has been analysed using a
Short Wave Infrared HSI, predicting the aging state with
an error of 1.8-2.1 days [20]. None of the mentioned work
examines polymer degradation in a chemical lab that allows
fine-tuning of different variables. Our proposed methodology
is a generalised approach to characterising and quantifying the
degradation rate of various polymers due to hydrolysis. It pro-
vides a methodology for analysing a larger set of applications
than scenario-specific methods and measurements.
III. A UTOMATED HYPERSPECTRAL CHARACTERISATION
STATION
This section provides an overview of the innovative char-
acterisation station proposed as a key element of process
automation within chemistry laboratories, enabling outcomes
with objective, data-driven and quantifiable results. Enabled by
the capabilities of the proposed system, in section IV, we in-
troduce a new and fully automated approach for measuring and
analysing polymer degradation rates. The automation station
is designed around multiple factors such as safety, flexibility,
minimising human intervention and maximising throughput.
The system consists of two primary processes: the character-
isation station and the image and data analysis pipeline. The
station is comprised of five principal components: a manipula-
tor (collaborative robot), an end-effector (gripper), an imaging
device (hyperspectral camera), illumination sources (halogen
lamps), and lab equipment (shaker). These components are
integrated through the Robotic Operating System (ROS) as
the communication framework. The data and imaging analysis
pipeline comprises five key sub-processes: calibration, region
of interest (ROI) detection, artefact removal, model fitting, and
data visualisation.
A. Process automation and hierarchical state machine
In our setup, we developed a series of independent software
modules that each controlled a physical device. The user can
arrange the modules in any sequence to define the operations
required for a task. The resulting sequential state machine is
called a “program” and can be saved into a library for future
use. Combining several programs and a user input module
comprises a hierarchical state machine that enables the user
to define a sequence of controlled actions as shown in Fig.2. “Program” number refers to the labelling associated with
individual subtasks, and “sequential sampling variables” serves
as the starting point for the sampling strategy, determining
the number of iterations a program runs and specifying the
time interval between each iteration.. Fig. 5 shows an example
program consisting of modular components for the automation
of an imaging task. Each program performs a specific task
via its own state machine, and the human-machine interface
allows for serialised commands, orchestrating multiple pro-
grams. Such tasks include running experiments in parallel or
performing more complex characterisation of high-level tasks.
B. Image processing and data analysis
Hyperspectral images are dense and high-dimensional data
structures that require the implementation of various image
and data processing techniques to enable meaningful analysis.
Several techniques are employed in our system, including flat
field correction, artefact removal and ROI detection. A brief
overview of these techniques is as follows.
Calibration : The well-known flat-field correction was em-
ployed to account for the influence of lighting on the samples.
A highly reflective (99%) tile was utilised to measure the light
source’s spectrum (W). The background noise (dark) spectrum
(D) was recorded with the shutter closed. Subsequently, the
hyperspectral data is calibrated using C=R−D
W−D·m, where
RandCare the raw calibrated data, respectively and mis a
constant scaling factor.
ROI detection : Numerous containers commonly found in
laboratory settings, including well plates, petri dishes, and
vials, exhibit circular geometries. OpenCV Hough’s circle de-
tection algorithm [21] with additional developed optimisations
and fine-tuning were utilised to automate the identification of
regions of interest (ROIs) [22][23]. The algorithm guarantees
non-overlapping detection of circles and sequential number-
ing, ensuring the convenient identification of each individual
sample. Particular focus was placed on the detection of well
plates as it allows for concurrent imaging of multiple samples.
Artefact removal : Two primary artefacts are encountered
in the detected regions of interest. Firstly, there is glare
on the surface of the solution, which is considerably more
reflective than the solution, and secondly, there is a possibility
of regions being erroneously flagged as part of the sample
post-circle detection. To address both concerns, a reflective
mask is produced via 3D printing and fitted on top of the well
plate and around the samples. This mask reflects considerably
more light, sufficient to induce CMOS sensor saturation.
Algorithmically, pixels that experience sensor saturation at any
wavelength are excluded from the region of interest, thereby
resolving both artefacts and enhancing the overall outcomes.
Model fitting : A major challenge in transitioning from lab-
scale chemistry to process automation is the lack of quantita-
tive chemical synthesis and analysis. We utilise a model-fitting
algorithm to match a particular model, whether it’s a basic
exponential function or a more complex one, with the data
obtained from hyperspectral imaging for various analyses. For
example, our novel approach to resolve this issue and calculate
the polymer’s half-life using only hyperspectral imaging is
outlined in the subsequent section.4
Fig. 2: Overall system design of autonomous hyperspectral characterisation station for laboratories.
IV. A UTOMATING POLYMER DEGRADATION RATE
MEASUREMENT AND ANALYSIS
A. Biodegradable polymers and their characteristics
In this paper, polymer degradation refers to the breakdown
of large polymers into smaller units due to hydrolysis, as
seen in Fig. 3. The underlying mechanisms governing polymer
degradation are complex and not fully understood [24]. Exist-
ing research suggests two established approaches: bulk erosion
and surface erosion [25][26]. Numerous theoretical models
have been proposed to describe polymer degradation rates,
adopting various approaches, including diffusion and surface
area dependence. This study uses a simple exponential decay
approach for assessing polymer degradation. The first-order
rate equation for the mass of undissolved polymers ( mp) is
given by 1, where k1is the decay constant.
−dmp
dt=k1mp. (1)
Solving the differential equation 1 results in :
mp(t) =ae−k1t. (2)
This study mainly focused on measuring polylactic acid
(PLA) degradation. It’s been shown that PLA degrades to
lactic acid and its oligomers [27]. Additionally, Lactic acid and
lactic acid salts are highly soluble in water [28][29]. Hence,
degraded PLA will fully dissolve in potassium buffer saline
(PBS) and not reflect any visible light. Under these conditions,
potassium lactate would be the major product formed at equi-
librium. This is further confirmed by an experiment measuring
Fig. 3: A black and white representation of hyperspectral images, used to
measure the degradation rate of polymers. The degradation process is evident
as time (in hours) progresses from the left to the right image.
the light reflected from PBS + lactide, PBS + lactic acid and
the PBS on its own. As shown in Fig. 4, the lactide and lactic
acid do not contribute to a signal change. The slight difference
in the baseline value of the three samples is due to the position
of the samples with respect to the camera and light.
The proposed methodology applies to a variety of polymers
as long as they satisfy two conditions: ( I) the polymer is
relatively well dispersed within the solution (this technique
isn’t as accurate for visibly concentrated or agglomerated
polymers) and ( II) the polymer dissolves into PBS (or other
solution) after degradation. An additional polymer independent
condition ( III) also needs to be satisfied to ensure the mass of
polymer per imaged-surface-area ( ρA) doesn’t exceed a certain
threshold ( τ).
B. Hyperspectral imaging model for polymers degradation
Hyperspectral imaging provides measurements of the re-
flected light over a wide range of wavelengths from biodegrad-5
Fig. 4: Total light reflected by the control samples. Lactide and Lactic acid
aren’t contributing to a signal change (plotted with the same range as the actual
results shown in subsequent figures). The standard deviation of reflection
intensity values for these controlled samples is less than 5% of their average
values for all cases.
able polymers, in contrast to conventional RGB cameras or
similar sensors that are restricted to certain wavelengths. The
half-life of polymers can be estimated by fitting an exponential
decay model to regular measurements of total reflected light
over an extended period of time using a hyperspectral camera.
The total light reflected by a sample is modelled as follows:
RT=Rs+Rp+Rb, (3)
where RTis the total light reflected, Rsis the light reflected
by PBS, Rpis the light reflected by any undissolved polymer,
andRbis the light reflected by the background. Since the Rs
andRbremain unchanged over time, as the polymer degrades,
they can be replaced by a constant c. Hence, we can rewrite
Eq. 3 as:
RT=Rp+c (4)
As previously discussed, we assume that the polymer is
relatively well dispersed within the solution and its area
density doesn’t exceed the threshold τ. This means that the
light reflected by the polymer would have a linear relationship
with the cumulative amount of undissolved polymer. Notably,
the mass of undissolved polymers ( mp) maintains direct
proportionality with the intensity of reflected light, owing to
the fact that non-degraded polymers can’t dissolve within the
solution. This is important as only the undissolved polymers
will contribute to the hyperspectral reflectance signal. As
such, we can reasonably expect a linear relationship between
reflection and undissolved mass given by:
RT=a·mp+c (5)
where aandcare both constants. As given in Eq. 2, the
mass of the remaining polymers can be modelled using an
exponential decay, resulting in the following equation:
RT=a·e−kdt+c (6)from which the half-life ( t1
2) of the polymer can be calcu-
lated by:
t1
2=log(2)
kd. (7)
C. Advanced surface-mass dependent degradation model
By assuming a spherical shape and constant density ( ρ) for
the polymers, one can arrive at a surface area ( SA) dependent
rate of degradation as given in Eq. 8, where kdis the rate
constant [30].
−dmp
dt=k2·ρ·SA=k2(4πρ)1
3(3mp)2
3 (8)
With the linear combination of the above equation and
the mass-dependent model given in Eq. 1, we derive a new
degradation rate model (Eq. 9). This incorporates both the
surface and bulk modes of degradation into one equation.
−dmp
dt=k2(4πρ)1
3(3mp)2
3+k1·mp (9)
Denoting the constant term k2(4πρ)1
3(3)2
3byb, the differ-
ential equation 9, will be a Bernoulli ODE that can be solved
exactly with solution given by Eq. 10.
mp=−e−k1t(bek1t
3−ed1k1)3
k3
1(10)
By substituting the Eq. 10 in Eq. 5, we can now model the
total reflected light by:
RT=−ae−k1t(bek1t
3−ed1k1)3
k3
1+c (11)
where a >0,b≥0,k1≥0andc≥(b
k)3. Variable ais
just a scaling factor; for simplicity, we assume a= 1. Akaike
information criterion (AIC) and Minimum Description Length
(MDL) given in equations 12 and 13 respectively [31], are
used to evaluate the performance of the fitted models.
AIC =NX
i=1r2
i+ 2Pσ2(12)
MDL =NX
i=1r2
i+P
2log(N)σ2(13)
D. Robot position for imaging
To calculate the appropriate distance ( d) and velocity ( Vc) of
a sample with respect to a fixed camera, we need to know the
camera’s field of view ( FOV ), effective slit width ( Le), frame
rate (f) and spatial resolution ( Rp) as well as the desired image
length ( L). The desired image length in practice should be
slightly larger than the sample width (e.g. by 10%). Equations
14 and 15 show how a sample’s distance and velocity values
are calculated.
d=L−Le
2cot(FOV◦
2) (14)
Vc=L
Rp·f, (15)6
Algorithm 1 Sequential Sampling Strategy
Input: All hyperspectral ROI ( D), their corresponding time
(t) and variables f,bl,bu,g
Output: tn+1, optimal time separation for the next sampling
1:while sampling do
2: ifnew measurement then
3: I←F(D, t)
4: end if
5: ie←G(c, J) ▷Where J⊆I
6: if(ie< ϵ)then
7: Stop Sampling
8: else if |ie−∆i|< δ then
9: Continue without change
10: else
11: d←N(ie,∆i, g)
12: s←T(d, f)
13: tn+1←P(∆t, s, b l, bu)
14: end if
15:end while
E. Sequential sampling strategy with time-varying intervals
One of the challenges of polymer degradation analysis lies
in determining the optimal time intervals for capturing hyper-
spectral images during the degradation process. Employing a
constant time interval is not effective, as setting it too short
may lead to inefficiencies within the system while opting for a
long interval can result in missing critical data. Moreover, the
rate of polymer degradation can vary throughout the course of
an experiment, adding to the complexity of the task. To address
these challenges, we have developed a sequential sampling
algorithm, as shown in Alg. 1, designed for optimising the
time intervals between hyperspectral images. The process is
as follows:
Firstly, each sample’s total reflected intensity ( I) is extracted
from the ROI of hyperspectral images and recorded after each
measurement. Next, a subset of these intensities, usually the
last two measurements and a desired rate of change, denoted
asc, are used to calculate the ideal change in intensity ( ie).
Any change smaller than a predefined degradation limit ( ϵ)
is considered insignificant. If the ideal change in intensity is
smaller than the defined limit ϵ(e.g. <1%of the starting
intensity), it can be inferred that the sample won’t undergo
any further notable degradation, and the experiment can be
stopped. Alternatively, sampling can continue without adjust-
ing if the difference between ieand the last measured change
in intensity ( ∆i) is within an acceptable margin ( δ).
However, an optimisation algorithm is utilised if none of
these conditions are met. This algorithm calculates the optimal
time for the next measurement ( tn+1) by considering several
factors. First, it computes a normalised distance ( d) between
the ideal and actual change in intensity, with the option to
increase sensitivity by applying a gain factor ( g). A simple
way of calculating the normalised distance between ieand∆i
is given in Eq. 16.
d=g·(∆i
ie−2 +ie
∆i) (16)To find the appropriate change in sampling time ( s), we first
need to define the maximum allowed factor of change per time
interval f(we usually don’t want this to be more than a factor
of two). We then introduce a smooth monotone mapping of
distances dtos, using the ffactor as given by Eq. 17.
s= (1−f)e−d+f (17)
Finally, tn+1is determined based on the elapsed between
the two previous measurements ∆t,s, and absolute lower ( bl)
and upper ( bu) time boundaries. These absolute boundaries
are established based on system limitations and the specific
requirements of the experiment. If there are multiple samples
imaged, the final tn+1that the robotic system uses is the
smallest tn+1between all the given samples. The proposed
Alg. 1 offers notable advantages, primarily stemming from
its independence regarding how intensities change over time
and its low computational cost. These characteristics make
it a flexible and efficient tool for optimising the timing of
hyperspectral image capture during experiments.
V. E XPERIMENTAL SETUP AND RESULTS
A. Apparatus and integration
A Universal Robotics UR5e collaborative robot was selected
as the robotic arm and was equipped with an OnRobot RG6
gripper. Custom detachable 3D-printed fingers were imple-
mented for specific applications in the hand.
The SPECIM FX10e push-broom hyperspectral camera
serves as the primary characterisation device. It provides a
spatial resolution of 1024 pixels and covers the wavelength
range of 400 – 1000nm with a spectral resolution of 224. The
main light source for hyperspectral imaging is a 500W linear
halogen lamp.
ROS1 Noetic on Ubuntu 20.04 and standard UR5e and
RG6 gripper drivers were utilised for system integration and
communication. The robotic arm was controlled by directly
using its controllers and the Transform Library [32] for path
planning.
One of the main challenges in capturing hyperspectral data
was ensuring no information loss and maintaining 16-bit depth
through multiple software frameworks. The GigE interface of
the FX10e limited the camera driver’s choices. Aravis was the
preferred driver option and was used as an element within a
Gstreamer pipeline, allowing the transport of data to be fine-
tuned and previewed.
OpenCV [21] was used to manage the Gstreamer pipeline
and save the output to a cloud server. It’s important to note
that the above process was interfaced with the experiment
sequencer, allowing the automatic capture of hyperspectral
images in concert with the robot’s motion.
B. Polymer degradation experimental procedure
An example of a sample preparation procedure we under-
took is as follows: Polymer (5 mg) was dissolved in 2 mL of
1,4-dioxane, 400 µL was taken and added dropwise to a 15 mL
centrifuge tube that contains 8 mL of a solution of 99% ethanol
and 1% normal saline (0.9% NaCl in water). The mixture was7
Fig. 5: Schematic diagram of the imaging procedure. The lid manipulations
are crucial steps to minimise evaporation when idle and mitigate any potential
artefacts during the imaging process.
TABLE I: Polymer information
Name Mn Mw Endcap Dispersity Source
PLA1 56687 82911 Ester 1.463 Natureworks
PLA2 200913 296975 Acid 1.478 Akina Polymers
PLA3 11075 15089 Ester 1.362 Akina Polymers
PCL1 19006 34345 Acid 1.807 Merck (Sigma)
PHB1 128766 284529 None 2.210 Merck (Sigma)
allowed to settle for at least 30 minutes, then it was centrifuged
at 3500 RPM for 1 minute, and the supernatant was removed.
The solid was then dispersed in 1.5 mL of PBS at 0.6M
concentration and pH 12.3 (unless mentioned otherwise). This
suspension was then dispensed into a 24 well plate ( ρA=
2.63mg/cm2). Through several experiments, we find that the
mass of polymer per imaged-surface-area ( ρA), 3> ρA > 2
mg/cm2provides the best results for our given polymers and
experimental setup. The sample well plate was then put on
an orbital shaker, shaking at 30 RPM. The sequencer program
was launched, and the tasks defined in Fig. 5 were executed.
The defined process was repeated at specified time intervals
for a defined number of cycles, depending on the experiment’s
requirements.
Table I contains information about different polymers used
in our experiments.
C. Uncertainty and performance
Each measurement conducted during any experimental run
exhibited a relative standard deviation of 4.05%. This was
calculated by putting identical samples within the wells and
comparing their differences. The given standard deviation
accounts for the systematic error inherent in our designed
system. Furthermore, when considering both PLA1 and PLA2,
the standard deviation of half-life measurements within the
same experimental run was determined to be approximately
21 minutes. As a result, we can assert a 95% confidence
level in the data’s self-consistency within a margin of error
of 42 minutes for all measured half-life values pertaining
(a) accuracy ( R2values) of the exponential degradation model
(b) accuracy ( R2values) of the advanced degradation model
Fig. 6: Degradation model-fitting performance with fixed sampling rate.
to PLA1 and PLA2 within the same run. It’s worth noting
that this margin could potentially be wider for polymers with
longer degradation periods or measurements made among
different runs. The circle detection algorithm exhibits a self-
optimising capability, leading to 100% accuracy in detecting
regions of interest (ROIs) for well plates of size 24 or smaller,
contingent upon providing reasonable initial values to the
algorithm. The final iteration of the robotic system achieved
an independent success rate of 98.75% per measurement. This
entailed a total of 396 successful measurements collected and
analysed, with only 5 instances resulting in system failure
(likely to be the result of computer glitches). Notably, the
system’s longest consecutive successful run comprised 156
measurements, spanning a week-long period without human
intervention.
D. Performance of degradation models
Two distinct mathematical models (Eq. 6 and Eq. 11) were
formulated to describe the behavior of PLA in a PBS when
utilising hyperspectral imaging. As illustrated in Figures 6a
and 6b, the model incorporating a linear combination of both
surface area and mass-dependent degradation rates demon-
strates superior performance, achieving a R2value of over
99% for the examined polymers. In comparison, the simpler8
TABLE II: Degradation model performance
Sample AIC(exp.) AIC(adv.) MDL(exp.) MDL(adv.)
PLA1 at pH=12.3 0.14 0.026 0.32 0.070
PLA2 at pH=2 0.048 0.020 0.11 0.054
PLA2 at pH=3 0.072 0.026 0.17 0.072
exponential model attains R2values in the range of approx-
imately 96-98%. This eludes the accuracy of the developed
model for describing the factors underlying polymer degra-
dation. However, it’s worth noting that the advanced surface-
mass-dependent degradation model doesn’t have a half-life as
an inherent characteristic. Consequently, we introduce a new
metric called “total life”, signifying the time required for the
hyperspectral signal to diminish to less than 1% of its initial
amplitude, directly translating to more than 99% of the poly-
mer degraded and dissolved into the PBS. Table II compares
the performance of the two different models using AIC and
MDL; the maximum value data point was normalised to 1prior
to applying the model selection metrics. For all three of the
given samples, the surface-mass-dependent degradation model
(denoted as adv.) has a lower AIC and MDL, indicating a more
descriptive model for the degradation process compared to a
simple exponential approach (denoted as exp.). Despite the
fact that the surface-mass-dependent model provides a more
accurate description of polymer degradation, we will use the
exponential model (Eq. 6) for subsequent analyses to report the
well-established concept of half-life. This is justified as the R2
values fitting the exponential model fall within an acceptable
range.
E. Performance of variable sequential sampling strategy
The sequential sampling strategy is applied to existing
data to assess its performance. The objective is to evaluate
the trade-off between the reduction in the number of data
points and the resulting measurement accuracy. In practice,
the algorithm would predict the optimal time for the next
measurement and then select the closest available data point
to that predicted time. When comparing Figures 7b and 7a to
6b and 6a, respectively, a notable reduction in the number
of data points used is observed, down to only 30-42% of
the original data set. Despite this reduction in the number
of data points, the measured half-life and total life remain
within 10% of the values obtained using the full data set. This
demonstrates the efficiency and effectiveness of the sequential
sampling strategy in optimising data collection while main-
taining measurement accuracy. The algorithm’s performance
is assessed offline using the collected data in section V-D.
This approach enables a direct comparison between sampling
methods, focusing exclusively on the distinction between fixed
and time-variant intervals while minimising the influence of
other variables.
F . Additional polymer types
Throughout our experimentation, PLA served as the primary
polymer due to its relatively rapid degradation, enabling us to
explore and demonstrate the capabilities of the characterisation
system. However, as illustrated in Fig. 8, the system showcases
(a) Sequential sampling algorithm and exponential model fitting
(b) Sequential sampling algorithm and advanced model fitting
Fig. 7: Performance of model fitting via variable sequential sampling algo-
rithm. The R2value given is between the fitted model using the post-sampling
data and the original data set. The percentage of data used after sequential
sampling is given within the brackets
Fig. 8: The degradation of PCL1 and PHB1 were measured over the course
of two weeks. PBS of strength pH 14 was used to attain these results.
its capabilities beyond PLA by successfully measuring the
half-life of other polymers, such as PHB and PCL.
G. Effect of pH
The degradation of PLA at different pH strengths was
measured to give a quantitative analysis of the effect of pH9
Fig. 9: Illustrates the effect of pH strength on the half-life of PLA2
strength on the polymer degradation rate. As demonstrated in
Fig. 9, increasing the pH of PBS from 9.6 to 12.3 significantly
accelerated polymer degradation, reducing the half-life of
PLA2 by almost 50 times. However, it’s important to note
that this effect could vary among different polymers and
buffer solutions. Hence, our system provides the methodology
needed for high-throughput degradation measurement under
various conditions. This methodology is not limited to the
variability of pH strength and can be extended to polymer
mass, temperature, buffer type or concentration.
H. GPC measurements
The samples undergoing degradation were first imaged and
then periodically taken out of the wells at specific time
intervals to conduct the destructive GPC analysis. This step
was crucial to confirm that the changes observed by the
hyperspectral camera were caused by the polymer degradation
process. As depicted in Fig. 10a, the sample at t=0, which had
not undergone any degradation, displayed a broad peak with a
central value of Mn ≈200,000 g/mol. At each subsequent time
point, we observe the original peak diminishing in intensity,
while two additional peaks emerge at Mn ≈2,500 and Mn
≈5,000 g/mol. Notably, no polymer is detected at Mn <
1,000 g/mol. This absence in the lower Mn range could be
attributed to the partial dissolution of oligomers below this
molecular weight threshold, resulting in rapid degradation with
only monomers remaining.
Fig. 10b presents the hyperspectral measurements corre-
sponding to the GPC results, which are illustrated earlier
in Fig. 10a. Within a span of 25 hours, it appears that the
polymer has undergone near-complete degradation, with the
exponential model closely approaching its projected asymp-
tote. Consequently, Fig. 10c showcases the final GPC mea-
surement acquired at the 25th hour compared to the 5th hour
of the experiment. This measurement shows a minute peak
at Mn ≈2,200 g/mol. This observation serves as additional
confirmation, reinforcing the accuracy and reliability of the
degradation measurements conducted by our proposed system.
(a)
(b)
(c)
Fig. 10: (a) A plot of the GPC measurements over the course of 5 hours. (b)
The hyperspectral results of the control sample in the GPC run. (c) The GPC
measurements at 5 hours and 25 hours time points.
I. Effect of molecular weight and end-groups on degradation
Blends of three pairs of polymers (PLA1-PLA2, PLA1-
PLA3 and PLA2-PLA3) with different molecular weights
were made, resulting in a range of samples with varying
number average molecular weights (Mn). The half-life of these
blends was measured and is illustrated in Fig. 11. The results
demonstrate that PLA1 has the highest half-life despite having
a smaller Mn than PLA2. Additionally, we know that PLA110
Fig. 11: Blend of pairs of polymers demonstrating the effect of molecular
weight and end groups. The “+” on a data point represents that it’s a shared
point between two blends.
Fig. 12: 3D ternary plot of the half life of PLA1, PLA2, PLA3 and their
blends
and PLA3 are both ester end-capped while PLA2 is acid
end-capped. These results show that the degradation rate is
affected by a multitude of inter-dependant factors, such as the
combination of end groups and molecular weight. Addition-
ally, the convergence of half-life measurements between two
distinct sets of blends (PLA1-PLA2 and PLA1-PLA3) and
measurements show the accuracy of the measured half-life.
J. Complex blends
To fully demonstrate the capabilities of the proposed system,
we synthesised a blend comprising three distinct polymers
(PLA1-PLA2-PLA3) and subsequently measured their respec-
tive half-lives, as shown in Fig. 12. Many variables affect
the degradation rate of polymers; hence, a high throughput
analysis of a wide range of polymers and their blends through
an automated process is crucial.VI. D ISCUSSION
The characterisation station successfully measured the half
life of staple biodegradable polymers such as PLA, PHB, and
PCL within a laboratory environment. The GPC measurements
confirm the observed change in hyperspectral images is due
to polymer degradation followed by dissolution. Due to an
increase in pH strength, the acceleration of degradation was
measured quantitatively to be a factor of 2-5 per integer
increase in pH within the range of 9.6 and 14 for PLA2. To
fully quantify the extent of change in the degradation rate due
to an increase in pH strength, a more extensive study analysing
a variety of polymers will be required.
Furthermore, by utilising blends of PLA1, PLA2 and PLA3,
we identified a gradual but non-linear change in the half-life of
the PLA samples when they were blended at different ratios.
This is critical as without an extensive study of their blends,
some results could be interpreted as outliers. The ternary plot
in Fig. 12 depicts the smooth transition of half-life between the
different polymers to verify the genuine effects of molecular
weight and end groups underpinning the degradation rate.
This lays the groundwork for automated and high throughput
analysis of polymer blends and their properties within the
realm of material science.
The sequential sampling strategy developed to optimise
the time interval between hyperspectral measurements can
be implemented in real-time as a next step to improve the
efficiency and multi-experimental throughput of the system.
Additionally, computationally efficient machine learning al-
gorithms could be explored as an alternative method to the
presented method. All the results provided in this paper were
acquired individually, leading to extended idle periods of the
characterisation station. However, the system is capable of
running multiple independent or dependent experiments in
parallel, which should be considered in the future use of the
developed system for other applications.
VII. CONCLUSION
An innovative robot-assisted automated hyperspectral
imaging-based methodology is proposed to facilitate the tem-
poral characterisation of materials. Through the utilisation of
this developed system, hyperspectral analysis is introduced
as a novel technique for evaluating the degradation rate
of biodegradable polymers. The proposed automated system
has accurately measured polymer degradation rates at high
throughput. This capability enables the characterisation of
degradation rates across a wide range of different conditions.
Notably, our observations indicate that multiple factors influ-
ence degradation rates, with end groups emerging as the most
influential polymer property. Our work lays the foundation
for further exploration through in-depth investigations into
the individual factors, ultimately expanding our collective un-
derstanding of polymer degradation dynamics. The proposed
system is shown to be capable of generating systematic data
for the validation of models. Future work could utilise this
capability to test the suitability of potential models for material
characterisation. There exists ample potential for extending
the application of our demonstrated system to a broader range11
of temporal experiments encompassing various materials and
conditions.
REFERENCES
[1] M. Abolhasani and E. Kumacheva, “The rise of self-driving labs in
chemical and materials sciences,” Nature Synthesis , pp. 1–10, 2023.
[2] B. Burger, P. M. Maffettone, V . V . Gusev, C. M. Aitchison, Y . Bai,
X. Wang, X. Li, B. M. Alston, B. Li, R. Clowes et al. , “A mobile
robotic chemist,” Nature , vol. 583, no. 7815, pp. 237–241, 2020.
[3] G. R. D. Prabhu and P. L. Urban, “The dawn of unmanned analytical
laboratories,” TrAC Trends in Analytical Chemistry , vol. 88, pp. 41–52,
2017.
[4] A. Samir, F. H. Ashour, A. A. Hakim, and M. Bassyouni, “Recent
advances in biodegradable polymers for sustainable applications,” Npj
Materials Degradation , vol. 6, no. 1, p. 68, 2022.
[5] T. P. Haider, C. V ¨olker, J. Kramm, K. Landfester, and F. R. Wurm,
“Plastics of the future? the impact of biodegradable polymers on the
environment and on society,” Angewandte Chemie International Edition ,
vol. 58, no. 1, pp. 50–62, 2019.
[6] S. Baidurah, “Methods of analyses for biodegradable polymers: a
review,” Polymers , vol. 14, no. 22, p. 4928, 2022.
[7] A. M. Zanchettin and F. Facciotti, “A collaborative robotic solution
to partly automate sars-cov-2 serological tests in small facilities,” Slas
Technology , vol. 27, no. 1, pp. 100–106, 2022.
[8] J. X.-Y . Lim, D. Leow, Q.-C. Pham, and C.-H. Tan, “Development
of a robotic system for automatic organic chemistry synthesis,” IEEE
Transactions on Automation Science and Engineering , vol. 18, no. 4,
pp. 2185–2190, 2020.
[9] H. Fakhruldeen, G. Pizzuto, J. Glowacki, and A. I. Cooper, “Archemist:
Autonomous robotic chemistry system architecture,” in 2022 Interna-
tional Conference on Robotics and Automation (ICRA) . IEEE, 2022,
pp. 6013–6019.
[10] N. Yoshikawa, A. Z. Li, K. Darvish, Y . Zhao, H. Xu, A. Kuramshin,
A. Aspuru-Guzik, A. Garg, and F. Shkurti, “Chemistry lab automation
via constrained task and motion planning,” 2023.
[11] W. Xiao, J. Yang, H. Fang, J. Zhuang, Y . Ku, and X. Zhang, “Devel-
opment of an automatic sorting robot for construction and demolition
waste,” Clean Technologies and Environmental Policy , vol. 22, pp. 1829–
1841, 2020.
[12] Z. Chen, J. Wang, T. Wang, Z. Song, Y . Li, Y . Huang, L. Wang,
and J. Jin, “Automated in-field leaf-level hyperspectral imaging of corn
plants using a cartesian robotic platform,” Computers and Electronics
in Agriculture , vol. 183, p. 105996, 2021.
[13] N. Hanson, T. Kelestemur, J. Berman, D. Ritzenhoff, and T. Padir,
“Hyperbot-a benchmarking testbed for acquisition of robot-centric hy-
perspectral scene and in-hand object data,” in 2022 12th Workshop on
Hyperspectral Imaging and Signal Processing: Evolution in Remote
Sensing (WHISPERS) . IEEE, 2022, pp. 1–5.
[14] V . Sagan, M. Maimaitijiang, S. Paheding, S. Bhadra, N. Gosselin,
M. Burnette, J. Demieville, S. Hartling, D. LeBauer, M. Newcomb et al. ,
“Data-driven artificial intelligence for calibration of hyperspectral big
data,” IEEE Transactions on Geoscience and Remote Sensing , vol. 60,
pp. 1–20, 2021.
[15] L. Pieszczek and M. Daszykowski, “Near-infrared hyperspectral imaging
for polymer particle size estimation,” Measurement , vol. 186, p. 110201,
2021.
[16] D. Bash, Y . Cai, V . Chellappan, S. L. Wong, Y . Xu, P. Kumar, J. Da Tan,
A. Abutaha, J. Cheng, Y . F. Lim et al. , “Machine learning and high-
throughput robust design of p3ht-cnt composite thin films for high
electrical conductivity,” arXiv preprint arXiv:2011.10382 , 2020.[17] H. Shinzawa, M. Nishida, T. Tanaka, and W. Kanematsu, “Accelerated
weathering-induced degradation of poly (lactic acid) fiber studied by
near-infrared (nir) hyperspectral imaging,” Applied spectroscopy , vol. 66,
no. 4, pp. 470–474, 2012.
[18] R. M. Dorrepaal, B. M. Lawless, H. E. Burton, D. M. Espino, D. E.
Shepherd, and A. A. Gowen, “Hyperspectral chemical imaging reveals
spatially varied degradation of polycarbonate urethane (pcu) biomateri-
als,” Acta Biomaterialia , vol. 73, pp. 81–89, 2018.
[19] M. Bleszynski, S. Mann, and M. Kumosa, “Visualizing polymer damage
using hyperspectral imaging,” Polymers , vol. 12, no. 9, p. 2071, 2020.
[20] M. Wieser, S. H. Unterberger, and R. Lackner, “Application of hyper-
spectral imaging for identification of aging state of styrene–butadiene–
styrene,” Spectrochimica Acta Part A: Molecular and Biomolecular
Spectroscopy , vol. 271, p. 120918, 2022.
[21] G. Bradski, “The OpenCV Library,” Dr. Dobb’s Journal of Software
Tools , 2000.
[22] H. Dong, G. Sun, W. C. Pang, E. Asadi, D. Prasad, and I.-M. Chen,
“Fast ellipse detection via gradient information for robotic manipulation
of cylindrical objects,” IEEE Robotics and Automation Letters , vol. 3,
pp. 2754–2761, 2018.
[23] H. Dong, E. Asadi, G. Sun, D. Prasad, and I.-M. Chen, “Real-time
robotic manipulation of cylindrical objects in dynamic scenarios through
elliptic shape primitives,” IEEE Transactions on Robotics , vol. 35, pp.
95–113, 2019.
[24] B. Laycock, M. Nikoli ´c, J. M. Colwell, E. Gauthier, P. Halley,
S. Bottle, and G. George, “Lifetime prediction of biodegradable
polymers,” Progress in Polymer Science , vol. 71, pp. 144–189,
2017, topical V olume on Polymeric Biomaterials. [Online]. Available:
https://www.sciencedirect.com/science/article/pii/S0079670017300540
[25] F. V on Burkersroda, L. Schedl, and A. G ¨opferich, “Why degradable
polymers undergo surface erosion or bulk erosion,” Biomaterials , vol. 23,
no. 21, pp. 4221–4231, 2002.
[26] A. G ¨opferich, “Mechanisms of polymer degradation and erosion,”
Biomaterials , vol. 17, no. 2, pp. 103–114, 1996, polymer Scaffolding
and Hard Tissue Engineering. [Online]. Available: https://www.
sciencedirect.com/science/article/pii/0142961296857553
[27] S. Inkinen, M. Hakkarainen, A.-C. Albertsson, and A. Sodergard, “From
lactic acid to poly (lactic acid)(pla): characterization and analysis of pla
and its precursors,” Biomacromolecules , vol. 12, no. 3, pp. 523–532,
2011.
[28] “National center for biotechnology information. pubchem compound
summary for cid 612, lactic acid,” accessed 7 September, 2023. [Online].
Available: https://pubchem.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/compound/Lactic-Acid
[29] W. P. Evans and C. B. Monk, “Conductivity and solubility studies
of some glycollates and lactates,” J. Chem. Soc. , pp. 550–557, 1954.
[Online]. Available: http://dx.doi.org/10.1039/JR9540000550
[30] A. Chamas, H. Moon, J. Zheng, Y . Qiu, T. Tabassum, J. H. Jang, M. Abu-
Omar, S. L. Scott, and S. Suh, “Degradation rates of plastics in the
environment,” ACS Sustainable Chemistry & Engineering , vol. 8, no. 9,
pp. 3494–3511, 2020.
[31] N. Gheissari and A. Bab-Hadiashar, “A comparative study of model
selection criteria for computer vision applications,” Image and Vision
Computing , vol. 26, no. 12, pp. 1636–1649, 2008. [Online]. Available:
https://www.sciencedirect.com/science/article/pii/S0262885608000711
[32] T. Foote, “tf: The transform library,” in Technologies for Practical Robot
Applications (TePRA), 2013 IEEE International Conference on , ser.
Open-Source Software workshop, April 2013, pp. 1–6.